DOC>
<DOCID> 13691 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Mazda_626 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-2A32-E8C07E7-392A0CA0-prod3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My 1999 Mazda 626 ES V-6 is only the second car that I personally owned.  I've driven easily 75 vehicles, and I must say that this is my personal pick as 'the best of them all'.

I purchased my 626 on August 3rd 1999, and on August 10th I was stopped for speeding!  My previous car had a radar detector in the windshield and when I bought the new one and was clearing out my old car I broke one of the suction cups and ended up having to toss it in the glove box till I got a new one.  I was unaware that the 626 had such a smooth ride that you could easily go 15-20 over the speed limit and not notice it!

Since I bought it, it's been almost 10 months and I have a total of 29,000 miles on it!  Yes I bought it NEW, it had 28 miles when I got the keys and I'm the ONLY one who drives it!  I've had my 626 to Ontario Canada and back several times, Baltimore, Pittsburgh, basically everywhere in the Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Delaware tri-state area and I believe it to be a superior automobile.

My 626 has a sage green metallic exterior, and tan leather interior, I ordered it with the ES trim level, so it came standard with a Bose Cd audio system, cassette was an option that I didn't get, wierd huh?  In the 2000 I believe that's standard, maybe someone complained?

I've actually become friends with the guys in the service department, I mean, I see a lot of them, not because there's something wrong, but because I need my oil changed a lot!

I've had warranty service performed on the car 3 times in the last 10 months, and also there was one recall notice.  The first warranty work I had done was because I noticed a 'knocking' noise coming from the side of the engine, it was actually a belt tensioner that broke causing the belt to flap, which was what was making the noise.  The second warranty work was actually my fault, more or less.  I was in my fathers driveway, coming out of the car, (which by the way, the 626 is EXCELLENT IN SNOW!) and the driveway was covered in ice, I slipped and somehow ended up putting all my weight, (I weigh 215 pounds) on the door handle, which caused the plastic supports on the bottom to crack, Mazda service replaced it no questions asked! The third warranty service was for my passenger side headrest, one day while having the leather seats conditioned and UV protected at a detailing shop, one of the guys told me it felt 'loose'.  I don't know how it happened but it seems that the metal bars were pulled through the foam that held them in place.... no cost, no questions asked replacement, bravo to Mazda!

Overall I'd say that my favorite things with my car are the occilating air vents, (will another car company do this anytime soon) they're neat AND they work!  I also like the factory, Bose stereo system, I like a lot of distortion-free bass, and I get everything I want with this, a standard disk changer would have been nice, maybe I'll add one sometime.  I also like the way the 626 rides, smooth, consistent, and quiet.

But most of all, the V-6 that thing has, 170 horsepower 2.5 liter launchpad!  I tend to have a 'lead foot' and I must say, a few weeks ago I actually out ran, a Camaro!  YES A CAMARO, with a V-8!  I was running my 626 on 93 octane, but I must say, that made me proud to be a 626 owner, that engine has saved me in a couple situations too long to explain, but I managed a couple times to pull my way out of a couple messes.  There's an on-ramp down in Northeast Maryland that I used to use all the time to take my ex to work, you NEED to basically be going 80-85 when you merge into traffic, and especially in heavy traffic!  I get out there, tramp down on it for a bit and I'm doing 90 by the time I'm halfway down the ramp and I'm looking for a place to merge into, not worrying about how fast I'm going, again Bravo to Mazda!

Overall, I'd say that the 626 is an excellent representation of automobile excellence, and no I'm not a paid endorser!

UPDATE!!!***********************

September 27th 2000

Officially 40,290 miles on my 626, been feeding it 93 octane lately, using Mobil 1 Synthetic 10W30 motor oil, new PCV valve a week or so ago, and I replaced the air filter (It really didn't need it, but I did it anyway) about 5,000 miles ago.  I work 3rd shift, and last night with no traffic on the road I took a co-worker out for his first ride in a Mazda... he's a Ford guy himself... I wound it up to 110 miles an hour and he almost needed new underwear when we got back from our lunch break.  I haven't had a single problem with it at all yet.  I added a remote starter back in July, gotta love em!  and also I added thin black door guards to all 4 doors, just before that I installed a sunroof wind deflector, you wouldn't believe how much wind noise that takes away when it's open!

I look forward to another 40,000 trouble free miles with my Mazda... and also a new set of tires!  $645 to replace the same ones that came with it, Mazda spared no expense there... 20570R15's from Bridgestone.... RE92 model... who knows, but their rated for sustained speeds at 145 miles an hour or higher..... good enough for me!

Again, over 40,000 in about a year and running strong!   I'll keep you all posted!

UPDATE    *#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*

I was send an email asking about my progress with this car, below is a copy of my response!

Yes, I do still have this car, it currently is just short of 80,000 miles
and runs just as good as the day I bought it, I just took a 2,000 mile round
trip to Canada, actually got back at 8pm tonight and averaged 29 miles per
gallon (with a V6 that is excellent) and never once thought about the
reliability of the car, out of habit I checked the oil and fluids when I
left and when I returned, no changes at all.

I just recently had the brakes, fuel filter, battery (just a precaution, and
it was on sale), windshield washer nozzles (I think it got clogged by some
wax I was using and it was spraying erratically) transmission filter (don't
use synthetic transmission fluid in this car, buy something with the name
Mazda on the back of the bottle, I used Mobil 1 and it started slipping,
changed to a Valvoline that's recommended for Mazda's and it's fine!) all
this servicing was done recently.

I would rate this car Excellent for reliability, I bought mine new so the
depreciation really hurt but I did service it regularly and I wouldn't be
surprised if I keep it for a couple more years, trade it in, and see it fly
by me in 10 years with 400,000 miles on it!

I wouldn't say that all of the 99 626's are like this, if you get one, stay
away from the 4 cylinder, I would like to have one now but the drivetrain
components, especially the transmission in the 4 cylinder are rated lousy,
the V6 is superior in all respects.  It's not huge for a V6, the same size
engine in the Toyota Camry, the Nissan Maxima and the Honda Accord all put
out more power, but in terms of it lasting I would say the 626 with the V6
engine is up there with the best of them!

I do believe I'll keep this car well beyond 100,000 miles, it has been very
good to me, with only a few minor problems, mostly my fault, but none of
them ever kept it from being driveable.   I installed aftermarket foglamps
that had a cracked relay case and stopped working after a couple months, I
fixed it for $7, I bought a new relay and snapped it in.  The power seat
adjuster seized up, it was under warranty so it was a no cost 2 hour fix.  I
had to replace a headlamp at 65,000 miles, it blew out so I went with a pair
of something a little brighter, no problems there, just a 5 minute $20 fix.
I had someone back into the driver side fender recently when it was parked,
it's being fixed Monday, the body parts to replace on this car are fairly
cheap too so that's nice if you tend to hit things a lot!!  LOL!   I
installed an aftermarket alarm system with remote start, a navigation
system, and a satellite radio receiver all with no problems, it's an easy to
maintain, simple to work on car.

My only complain is the plastic they used to surround the opening where the
key goes in the door (not that I use them I have keyless entry that came
with the car, but still)  there's nothing you can use to get the chalky look
out of that, it's not big, just a ring the side of a dime but I'm picky like
that.... I bought 2 new ones from my Mazda dealer for $5.... they just pop
out with a knife and the new ones snap in, free shipping too, so all I have
to do is pick them up!

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<