DOC>
<DOCID> 27027 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec_Cameras-Digital_OlympusDigitall-Olympus_D-450_Zoom </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-27B4-492B4D-388DE320-bd3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Olympus D450Z
This camera is well worth the $499 dollar price tag.  It is a 1.3 mega-pixel
camera with a resulting picture resolution of 1280x960.  1.3 meg-pixel is
all you need for prints from wallet size up to 5x7 inch.  There is also a
640x480 resolution mode which will produce prints up to about 3x4 inches.
Anything larger will appear pixelized.

The image quality is very good, the lens system, and auto focus system seem
accurate.  This camera has a 3x true optical zoom lens as well as a 2x
digital zoom.  The optical zoom is very important for a digital camera since
it allows filling the frame with your subject.  Digital cameras have more
limited resolution than 35mm cameras, you don't have as much leeway in
cropping the image after-the-fact without losing resolution.

There are a number of other cameras available that include only the digital
zoom.  This is really no zoom at all, since this is just cropping the center
portion of the image array, taking the 640x480 pixel center portion of the
image array.  You can do the same thing by taking a full resolution 1280x960
pixel image and manually cropping down to 640x480.   However, if you
normally take 640x480 images anyway, you may find the 2x digital zoom
useful.  Also the digital-zoomed images take less memory than full
resolution images.

The best all-around image setting to use on this camera is 1280x960 HQ mode.
1280x960 SHQ images take up twice as much memory and the difference in
quality between HQ and SHQ modes is negligible. You can get about 36 HQ
pictures on an 8MB smartmedia card.  (1280x960 SHQ gets 18 pictures, 640x480
SQ mode gets 122 pictures)  Since you can't just pop in another roll of film
when you are away from your computer (like when you are on vacation), you
may want to invest in some additional smartmedia cards. The larger storage
cards are a better deal per megabyte.  A 32Megabyte card which will hold 146
HQ images cost about $100 retail.  8 megabyte cards are $30-$40 each retail.
Many mail order and e-stores have even better prices on smartmedia cards.

I would recommend that you invest in a set on NiMH rechargeable batteries.
Digital cameras in general including this one EAT ALKALINE BATTERIES FOR
LUNCH!  I get about 300 pictures from a set of charged NiMH batteries,
alkalines are only good for 50 to 75 pictures.


<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<